Midterm Study

Crypto goals: 
Access control: authorization and authentication
Confidentiality
Integrity
Non-repudiation

Defense in depth: layers of security
Security minded
Use public algorithms
Kirckhoff's principle: Security by secrecy of keys, not of algorithm.

Certificate authority (CA) - Issuer of certificates
	Certificate practice statement (CPS) - How certificates are issued.
	Registration authority (RA) - Identifies/verifies certificates
	Trusted third party (TTA)
Expiration
Certificate revocation list (CRL)
Relying party
Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)
	Needed to recognize which public key belongs to whom.

Steps for certificate verification:
Integrity
Expiration
Revocation
Usage constraints
Ownership

Strong symmetric encryption:
Strong algorithm
Safe key exchange/storage

GF: ax^7+bx^6+cx^5+dx^4+ex^3+fx^2+gx^1+h=abcdefgh

Block ciphers:
ECB (electonic codebook): All separate blocks. Can be parallelized. Just put the plaintext through the encryption. Flipping a bit should only change one block.

CBC (Cipher Block Chaining): Use cipher text as feedback. xor plaintext with IV before encryption. Flipping a bit should make it completely different.
In decryption, flipping a bit completely changes first block, one bit in next, and nothing in subsequent blocks. Decryption is parallel, encryption not.

Stream:
CTR (counter): Independent blocks. The IV has an incrementing counter for each block.
	Flipping a bit for both encryption and decryption only flips one bit for the current block.
CFB (Cipher feedback mode): Use feedback (after xor with plaintext) from previous block as the IV for the next block. Flipping a bit in the encryption changes one bit in current block and everything in subsequent blocks. Flipping a bit in decryption changes one bit in the current block, everything in the next block, and nothing in the next blocks (we already have the cipher text).
OFB (output feedback mode): Use output of encryption as feedback for next IV. Change a bit in the encryption and the decryption only changes one bit in the current block.

6 properties of an ideal hash:
Variable length input
Fixed length
Fast
one way - given h can't get x from h(x)
Weak Collision 
Strong collision

Types of attacks:
Collision attack (weak collision) - 2^n - Find something that has the same hash.
Birthday attack -Randomly create variations, store hashes, and find two that have the same hash. - 2^(n/2)

CBC: Cipher block chaining
